
--- Review 1 (269 words) ---
A lot of the best cinema of 2023 was about suffering and humanity's capacity to inflict harm: The creation of atomic warfare, systemic murder of those closest to you, genocide, grappling with loss in our past, or of loved ones, abusive relationships, the alienation of modern life, even the one about the toy doll was really about accepting life in the face of death. 

Each of these movies address this suffering in different ways, some see it as almost inevitable and futile, some challenge us to examine ourselves, accept ourselves, some are trying to act as a startling wake-up call, others are just acknowledging the awkward, messy complexity of grief. 

What is it that lies beneath so much of this suffering? These days I'm suspicious that the common theme underneath all of these is our collective inability to be with the moment and the world as it really is. Our constant striving for greatness for ourselves. Our insatiable hunger for more. Our desire to construct indestructible identities. To "protect" ourselves, or our country at any cost. Our attempts to create perfection instead of finding it where it already exists. 

Hirayama finds beauty and perfection in his imperfect life. Simplicity, humility, solitude, contentment, and slowing down to appreciate the elegant beauty that life hides in all it's little corners and crevices. This is what we need. These are radical in the face of the headlong spiral towards self-annihilation we're caught up in, that most of last year's cinema so beautifully and hauntingly illustrated. 

This is the antidote. 

Also Tokyo has some beautiful toilets. 

Read a full review on my newsletter.

--- Review 2 (201 words) ---
Wender's Paterson. definitely an answer to his buddy Jimmy. a minimalistic celebration of the little wonders of life. feel good cinema for the cultural bourgeoisie, Wim's fanbase.

or is this Wender's Barbie? dude has the time of his life in the fantastic world of toilet beasts. then realizes that there's this thing called "reality" where you got family traumata, cancer and stuff like that. what a bummer.

the romantic fetishization of the working class, right from the longing, wishful perspective of the belittling aristocracy. the toilet man reads Faulkner and listens to cassette tapes from the 80s of music from the 60s. 

in the naivety that is put on display in bright light the movie doesn't realize how cynic this could be read. pretty sure that all those buddhist philosophies - essentially the core of the whole thing as it seems - were put on paper and film much more discrete and humble in the asian culture itself before. 

Wenders just goes there and plunders long known facts of life for european arthouse audiences. still, there is a very mildness coming with the age visible here. Old Wimmy is going down the pledge of life, this might already be his farewell.

--- Review 3 (116 words) ---
A perfect song that hits at just the right moment, the play of sunlight through leaves, a fleeting moment of human connection in a vast metropolis: the wonders of everyday life come into breathtaking focus in this profoundly moving film by Wim Wenders. In a radiant, Cannes-award-winning performance of few words but extraordinary expressiveness, Koji Yakusho plays a public-toilet cleaner in Tokyo whose rich inner world is gradually revealed through his small exchanges with those around him and with the city itself. Channeling his idol Yasujiro Ozu, Wenders crafts a serenely minimalist ode to the miracle that is the here and now.

Our edition arrives on July 16, 2024. To learn more or pre-order, visit  Criterion.com.

--- Review 4 (665 words) ---
293. review: Wim Wenders 

So sorry, but I think that Wim Wenders' new film 'Perfect Days' is one of the biggest disappointments of this year, despite its heartwarming story. It follows the life and barely variable daily routine of a happy, very happy Japanese toilet cleaner in Tokyo. The ageing man begins each day by looking up at the sky and smiling. Then he gets into his car and plays Wenders' favourite retro playlist from a cassette player, shamelessly consuming House of Rising Sun, Lou Reed's Perfect Days and Nina Simone's wonderful Feeling Good in the same film, to the sound of which he drives straight into a brilliant sunrise with the widest, happiest smile on his face in the film's final frames.  He has reason to be happy, because the toilets in this part of Tokyo are extremely varied and hygienic (in the Sibuja district, the protagonist cleans toilets of internationally renowned architects, where guided tours are now being held bc of the film), and he only has to clean two a day, the people are more friendly than not, and although the man's bedroom is bigger than my entire apartment, he still goes to the public bath in the early afternoon, then eats delicious Asian food at a fabulous diner, sits in parks and takes analogue black-and-white photos of people hugging trees and the sunlight streaming through the canopy. In his spare time, he digs up little Japanese maple saplings from the base of large trees and transplants them at home, shaking the soil from their roots as carelessly as possible --- the little seedlings are obviously for bonsai trees --- and in the evenings he reads for hours on the ascetically hard mattress spread out on the floor. 


The reviews of the film, not only here on lb, are invariably hymns to the joy of simple living. Hard to argue with them. Like Godland or The Lighthouse, this film is a fake: a misappropriation of the Asian, urban version of slow cinema, a saccharine, maudlin, involuntary imitation of the genre. But for those who recognise in the beautiful landscapes of Godland, the superb acting of Lighthouse or the humanist message of Perfect Days something that has strong precedents in their visual memory and that they long for, it's very hard to say that it's all just an illusion, a beautifully photographed lie. Moreover, creators are driven by the same nostalgia when they unconsciously choose imitation over autonomous creation with its own stakes. It's a kind of mimicry. And it is very difficult to call a great director's swan song, intended as a final, happy yes to life, didactic and tasteless. Too bad that Wenders has chosen to convey his message in the most clichéd and unreflective way possible, using the topos of the ideal Asian man, capable of leading a simple and wise life (but listening to Western music!). The protagonist's name is a reference to Ozu's Tokyo Story as a source of inspiration. This is a textbook example of Orientalism, which uses stereotypes to convey a not very complex mental hygienic message (the use of the main motif is revealing, an unconcious slip of tongue the toilet here, but preferably nice and clean toilet, manufactured for the pleasure of global capital, as befits a comfort cinema, the shit of existence is not in the picture, lol). But the point is that you can't just want to make a film about the gift of life, there are some things you can't want or imitate. This should have happened spontaneously, against the gravity of the material --- but this material is concentrated kitsch, one hundred percent kitsch, which has no gravity at all. The particularly poignant result of the film is that, in retrospect, it reveals Wenders' omnipresent tendency towards sentimentality; what once seemed like overflowing emotionality no longer seems so appealing from the perspective of this too-perfect 'Perfect Days'.

_____________
Song of the Day: Lou Reed+Bono+Duran Duran+Elton John+David Bowie: Perfect Day
www.youtube.com/watch?v=FyYiK8dY_Wk

--- Review 5 (159 words) ---
This is some ASMR right here. I could watch Hirayama (Koji Yakusho)&nbsp;clean toilets for an hour…..and I did. More than that, though, Perfect Days is a kind of celebration of the beauty of the world and almost a call to slow down and appreciate it. There’s a certain reverence for all things analog that permeates the aimless narrative (cassette tapes vs streaming music (killer soundtrack, btw), film photography vs digital (phone) photography). But mostly, it’s just about taking the time to enjoy life. Take pride in your work. Ride your bike. Take in your surroundings. Play Tic-Tac-Toe. Hug your sister. Play shadow tag. This isn’t gonna be everyone’s bag. It’s nonexistent narrative will frustrate some. It’s a beautifully presented film and it’s hard not to fall in love with Hirayama’s joy of life.&nbsp;

2023 Ranked

Degrees of Kevin Bacon: 2
1. Koji Yakusho and Mark Rendall in Silk
2. Mark Rendall and Kevin Bacon in My One and Only
